President Donald Trump’s former personal lawyer Michael Cohen directly implicated him in a court on Tuesday, making the extraordinary admission that Trump had directed him to arrange payments to two women during the 2016 presidential campaign to keep them from speaking publicly about affairs they had with Trump.

The International Court of Justice (ICJ) will hear for a week in February the case of Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav, 47, who was sentenced to death in April 2017 by a Pakistani military court on spying charges, according to a media report on Wednesday. India denied the charges and moved ICJ in May last year against the verdict. The ICJ halted Jadhav’s execution on India's appeal pending the final verdict by it.

India’s population will touch almost 1.7 billion by 2050 but its child population (those below 15 years of age) is projected to come down by 20% over the next 32 years. The population of Indians above 65 will in the meantime increase almost three times. As a result, India will go from being characterised as a country with moderate child dependency at present to one with a high old-age dependency by mid-century, new population projections by the US-based Population Reference Bureau suggest. According to the projections, India’s population growth of about 22.5% will be lower than the 29.3% growth in global population, marking a radical departure from the past as Africa emerges as the continent pushing the growth of the global population. India’s aging is in line with the global trend. From over one out of every four people in 2018, the global population of children is projected to come down to about one in five or 21% by 2050. At the same time, the share of the 65+ population will rise from less than one in 10 in 2018 to about one in six. PRB, a private non-profit, collects and analyses demographic data from across the world. According to PRB projections, in India, children will form 19% of the population in 2050, down from 28% in 2018, while the proportion of those above 65 years will rise to 13% from 6%.
The PRB report calculated the dependency ratio of various regions and countries. Dependency ratio is the number of people in a dependent age group (those under age 15 or ages 65 and older) divided by the number in the working-age group (ages 15 to 64), multiplied by 100. For instance, a child dependency ratio of 45 means there are 45 children for every 100 working-age individuals. Calculations based on the data given in the PRB’s World Population Datasheet 2018 show that in the 2018 to 2050 period, India is projected to go from a moderate child dependency ratio (defined as 29 to 45) of about 42 and low old age dependency ratio (15 or less) of around 9 to low child dependency ratio of 28 and high old age dependency ratio of 19.
According to PRB, India is set to reach two major milestones in the next 10 years — it will surpass China to become the world’s most populous country and also reach replacement fertility as families have fewer children. Replacement fertility means that each couple has, on average, only enough children to “replace” itself in the population without increasing the size of the next generation.

Satya Pal Malik, who will take over as J&K governor on Thursday, said his top priorities would be to carry out the Modi government’s mandate to “win the hearts of the people of J&K” and ensure a balance between the three regions of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh. “PM Modi has been talking of winning over the people of J&K and gaining their trust. The government has chosen me because as a career politician, I may be better suited to discharge this mandate,” he said.

WhatsApp has agreed to meet all demands of the IT ministry, except adding a feature that could help trace the origin of a message. The firm is believed to have told the Centre that it has no access to user data (it’s encrypted end to end) and tampering with that will strike at its key feature — complete privacy to the user. Experts say only a small fraction of the user data is temporarily cached to allow certain offline access and company stores no information on its servers. 

The Centre has opposed a nationwide ban on firecrackers and told the SC that a regulatory mechanism should be put in place to restrain manufacturers from using polluting raw materials. It said production of “series” crackers could be banned and states could designate places for bursting of firecrackers.

Violence marred Eid-ul-Adha celebrations across the Kashmir Valley on Wednesday when terrorists attacked and killed three policemen and a BJP functionary in four separate incidents. On Wednesday evening, unidentified gunmen barged into the house of a police inspector at Larve village in Pulwama and opened fire, killing him on the spot, police said. He was identified as Mohammed Ashraf Dar, who was posted at district police lines in Budgam and had come home to celebrate Eid with his family members. Bullet-ridden body of BJP man found in J&K. A police constable, identified as Muhammad Yaqoob, was injured when terrorists opened fire at him outside his residence in Louswani area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, police said, adding he died while being taken to hospital. In the third incident, terrorists opened fire on another constable, identified as Fayaz Ahmad Shah, when he was going home after offering Eid namaz in Awgam village of south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. He was rushed to hospital where he died, police said. Meanwhile, the bullet-riddled body of a BJP functionary, Shabir Ahmad Bhat from Pathan village of Pulwama, who had been abducted by terrorists when he was going home on Tuesday evening, was found in Litter village of Pulwama district on Wednesday morning, police said.