On a day when Karnataka prayed for better financial prospects, Varamahalakshmi festival, the state government announced a bonanza by waiving loans of up to Rs 2 lakh each taken by 16.4 lakh farmers from nationalised banks, and extending it to cover loans of small and marginal farmers borrowed from private moneylenders. As an extension of the previous government’s decision to waive farm loans taken from cooperative banks, the state cabinet decided to pay even the interest component to commercial and nationalised banks, after the latter decided not to waive the interest portion on loans of Rs 23,000 crore.

Overall, the state government will be paying Rs 7,419 crore in interest to commercial and nationalised banks, taking the total financial burden from this particular scheme to Rs 30,163 crore.The waiving of loans taken from private moneylenders will be enforced by invoking a 40-year-old law, The Debt Relief Act, which was last brought into effect during drought in 1976-1980, when D Devaraj Urs was CM. An ordinance invoking the Act will be issued by the state government on Saturday. It effectively nullifies all loans taken from private moneylenders.
The state government had earlier waived farm loans of Rs 10,900 crore from cooperative banks, after increasing the incentive for farmers who have paid their loans on time, from Rs 25,000 to Rs 1 lakh. However, this time, chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, who briefed the media after the cabinet meeting, said the government will give an incentive of Rs 25,000 to farmers who paid their instalments on time and have a running account.

Hinting at “political” sabotage from the opposition BJP in ensuring that commercial and nationalised banks backed out from waiving the interest portion of farm loans taken from them, Kumaraswamy said: “Despite commercial and nationalised banks having backed out of their promise of waiving interest on farm loans, we have decided to go ahead and waive the entire loan amount of farmers. The government will bear the burden of paying the interest portion too. I thank all those who tried to derail the loan waiver plans of the coalition government, and also commercial and nationalised banks for accepting our proposal.”
Kumaraswamy said that nationalised banks have agreed to a four-year instalment plan for repayment by the state government.
“We issued the government order today, as part of which all farmers who have defaulted on their loans receive a waiver of up to Rs 2 lakh. While banks may have rescinded on their promise, I have the know-how to repay the entire amount to banks even before the fourth instalment has to be paid,” Kumaraswamy said, accepting it as a challenge.

The Debt Relief Act to waive all loans taken by small and marginal farmers in the state will be brought into effect by way of an ordinance, and sent to the President for his assent. This will effectively nullify all loans taken by these farmers from private moneylenders, no matter how old they are, said the chief minister. The loans taken till the date of the Act coming into effect will be waived by the state government.